Getting started with IPLocate
Introduction
IPLocate provides an API to return data for IPv4 and IPv6 IP addresses - such as country, city, continent, timezone, and more.

The API also provides comprehensive ASN data, WHOIS data, and threat and privacy data. For example:

which organisation hosts the IP address
whether the IP address is a proxy or VPN, or belongs to a hosting provider
whether the IP address is abusive
IPLocate data is updated daily, using 50TB+ of public and proprietary data to produce our ground-truth data sets.

Quick start
Start by signing up for a free API key.

We have client libraries for popular languages, so you can get started quickly



Want to see a new language here, or developed your own integration? Let us know!

Or, try these quick start snippets:

Log in or sign up to get your API key and try out the examples below.



Node.js
const iplocate = require('node-iplocate');

iplocate('17.253.0.0', { api_key: "YOUR_API_KEY" }).then((results) => {
  console.log(results);
});




Authentication and API limits
Sign up for a free API key for 1,000 requests per day. You can purchase a monthly or yearly subscription starting at $29/month for higher API limits.

If you don't include an API key, your IP address is limited to 50 requests per day.

Our API provides information about your rate limits in the response headers: X-RateLimit-Limit, X-RateLimit-Remaining, and X-RateLimit-Reset.

You can also view your current usage and quota in your account dashboard.


API response data
An example response from the API can be seen by using the tool on the home page, or below:

{
  "ip": "123.243.246.200",
  "country": "Australia",
  "country_code": "AU",
  "is_eu": false,
  "city": "Sydney",
  "continent": "Oceania",
  "latitude": -33.8672,
  "longitude": 151.1997,
  "time_zone": "Australia/Sydney",
  "postal_code": "2049",
  "subdivision": "New South Wales",
  "subdivision2": null,
  "network": "123.243.240.0/20",
  "asn": {
    "asn": "AS7545",
    "route": "123.243.246.0/24",
    "netname": "TPG-INTERNET-AP",
    "name": "TPG Telecom Limited",
    "country_code": "AU",
    "domain": "tpgtelecom.com.au",
    "type": "isp",
    "rir": "APNIC"
  },
  "privacy": {
    "is_abuser": false,
    "is_anonymous": false,
    "is_bogon": false,
    "is_datacenter": false,
    "is_icloud_relay": false,
    "is_proxy": false,
    "is_tor": false,
    "is_vpn": false
  },
  "company": {
    "name": "TPG Telecom",
    "domain": "www.tpgtelecom.com.au",
    "country_code": "AU",
    "type": "isp"
  },
  "abuse": {
    "address": "TPG Internet Pty Ltd., (Part of the Total Peripherals Group), 65 Waterloo Road, North Ryde NSW 2113",
    "email": "hostmaster@tpgtelecom.com.au",
    "name": "ABUSE TPGCOMAU",
    "network": "123.243.246.192 - 123.243.246.223",
    "phone": "+000000000"
  }
}





For fields that are not available, the value will be null. For sub-objects, their field will be missing from the response. Depending on the data source, some fields might be an empty string (""). You should make sure your application handles each of these cases.




Base data Available in all plans
The base API response includes IP geolocation information such as country, city, currency and calling codes, timezone.



Attributes
ip
The IP address
country
The country name
country_code
The ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code
is_eu
Whether the IP address is in the European Union
currency_code
The ISO 4217 currency code of the country
calling_code
The country calling code of the country
city
The city, if available
continent
The continent
latitude
The latitude
longitude
The longitude
time_zone
The tz database timezone identifier of the timezone at the location
postal_code
The postal code
subdivision
The subdivision (state, province, etc.), if available
subdivision2 Deprecated
The second-level subdivision (county, etc.), if available

This field is deprecated and will be removed. Use subdivision instead.




ASN data Available in all plans
The asn object provides detailed information about the Autonomous System of the IP address. This is usually the service provider or network responsible for connecting the IP address to the rest of the internet.

Attributes
asn.asn
The ASN number
asn.route
The network range of the ASN
asn.netname
The name of the network
asn.name
The name of the organisation
asn.country_code
The ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code of the organisation
asn.domain
The domain name of the organisation
asn.type
The type of organisation. One of: business, hosting, government, education, isp, unknown
asn.rir
The Regional Internet Registry (RIR) that assigned the ASN (for example: APNIC, ARIN, LACNIC, RIPE)




Privacy & threat data Available in all plans
Privacy and threat data provides detailed information about privacy services associated with the IP address (such as proxies, VPNs, iCloud Private Relay), as well as threat and security information like abuse and spam reports.

This data is updated multiple times per day from a combination of public and proprietary data sources.



Attributes
privacy.is_abuser
true if the IP address has been reported as an abusive source (for example: spam, malware, etc.)

privacy.is_anonymous
Convenience field that is true if either privacy.is_proxy or privacy.is_tor is true

privacy.is_bogon
true if the IP address is a bogon IP address

privacy.is_hosting
true if the IP address belongs to a hosting provider (for example: Google Cloud, AWS, etc.).

If this is true, the top-level hosting object may contain more detailed information.

privacy.is_icloud_relay
true if the IP address belongs to Apple's iCloud Relay service

privacy.is_proxy
true if the IP address is a known proxy. IPLocate tracks millions of reported proxies. This data is updated multiple times per day.

privacy.is_tor
true if the IP address is a known Tor exit node.

privacy.is_vpn
true if the IP address is a known VPN. IPLocate tracks millions of actual VPN IP addresses. This data is updated multiple times per day.



Hosting data Available in all plans
Hosting data provides additional detailed information about the type of hosting service or datacenter the IP address belongs to. For example: AWS or Azure datacenter information.

{
  "hosting": {
    "provider": "Amazon AWS",
    "domain": "aws.amazon.com",
    "network": "3.5.140.0/22",
    "region": "ap-northeast-2",
    "service": "EC2"
  }
}




Attributes
hosting.provider
The name of the hosting provider — for example: Amazon AWS

hosting.domain
The domain name of the hosting provider — for example: amazonaws.com

hosting.network
The network range of the hosting provider

hosting.region
The region code as given by the hosting provider — for example: us-east-1

This field will be populated for hosting providers that provide this information. Otherwise, it won't be in the hosting object.

hosting.service
The name of the service this IP address/network is used for, as given by the hosting provider — for example: EC2

This field will be populated for hosting providers that provide this information. Otherwise, it won't be in the hosting object.

Abuse contact data Available in all plans
Abuse contact data is contact information (usually of the network administrator) which can be used to report IP addresses that are engaged in fraudulent/malicious activites.

Attributes
abuse.address
The physical address of the network abuse contact
abuse.country_code
The ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code of the network abuse contact
abuse.email
The email address of the network abuse contact
abuse.name
The name of the network abuse contact
abuse.network
The network range of the IP address
abuse.phone
The phone number of the network abuse contact
Company data Available in all plans
Company data identifies the name of the organization behind the IP address, the type of business, and its domain name. We source this information from various publicly available datasets. The company type is classified by a machine learning model based on observed IP address usage patterns and company metadata.

Attributes
company.name
The name of the organization
company.domain
The domain name of the organization
company.country_code
The ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code of the organization
company.type
The type of organization, based on a combination of network information and proprietary data.

One of: business, hosting, government, education, isp, unknown

VPN data Private beta
VPN data provides additional detailed information about the type of VPN or proxy service the IP address belongs to.

VPN data will be populated for IP addresses where privacy.is_vpn is true, and where we have additional data.

Note: Comprehensive VPN detection data is currently in beta. Contact us to get access.

VPN detection status is currently available via the privacy.is_vpn flag.

Advanced usage
Look up your own IP address
If you don't provide an IP address, we'll provide the data for the IP address you're calling from. You could use this, for example, to fetch a client's IP address data directly from front-end code.



Data corrections
We use a variety of public and proprietary data sources to provide the most accurate IP location data possible. However, if you find any inaccuracies, please submit a correction and we'll update our data as soon as possible.

We prefer a link to a hosted Geofeed, or a list of IP address data in Geofeed (RFC 8805) format.